The breaking news
this hour,
an outpouring of emotion here in Israel
as Hamas releases
24 hostages kidnaped back on October 7th.
CNN's Matthew Chance has details,
including a closer
look at the video
Hamas released of the hostage handoff.
Inside Gaza.
They kidnaped and killed,
but now Hamas is showing its gunmen
releasing Israelis in Gaza.
For many, these are disturbing scenes.
Nine year old Ohad Munda
being embraced as he set free,
an old woman
being carried by a masked man.
His Palestine lions cheer
after
49 long days of captivity in Gaza.
Aid workers from the Red Cross
drive them through the border into Egypt
and to freedom.
Fiction television
shows a convoy of vehicles
heading to the crossing.
Then the hostages, including ten Thais,
a Filipino
and the 13 Israeli women and children
disembarking for checks.
Israeli military posted this
grainy video
of the moment
they all finally reentered the country.
A step says the Israeli prime
minister, towards
bringing all hostages home.
Islam, whatever the visual, we shall.
We have just completed the return
of the first of our hostages,
children, their mothers
and additional women.
Each one of them is a whole world.
But I emphasize to you, the families
and to you citizens of Israel,
we are committed to return
all our hostages.
Most of the hostages
released in this first group
under the temporary truce
were taken from near ORs,
one of the small Israeli
communities near Gaza
ravaged by Hamas on October the seventh.
At least 38 people there were killed
and more than 70 abducted that day.
People like Danielle Aloni
and her five year
old daughter Emilia,
both freed in this latest release.
But the relatives they were visiting
when Hamas attacked
remain unaccounted for as hostages.
Behind every release, a poignant
reminder of those left behind.
Like the family of Omri Almog,
his brother in law and niece
killed his sister
and her three children still hostages.
Yet Omri is now optimistic.
The best is in front of us.
It's going to come.
Whatever happened, we cannot change.
The dove is no longer with us.
The beautiful girl is.
Is not with us anymore.
But there's still a chance.
Still a chance. Your sister?
Yes. Yes.
We have to bring what's left
within to bring back
what's left from this family.
It's a broken family.
A broken family in a country
of shattered lives.
Matthew Chance is joining me
live here in Tel Aviv right now.
So, first of all, Matthew,
what do we know
about what is expected to happen
tomorrow?
Well, we think, Wolf,
that it's going to follow a similar kind
of course already.
The Israeli officials
that we spoken to said that Mossad
and the Israeli military
have received a list
of potential hostage
releases from Hamas via
the mediators in Qatar have told us
is on the list.
Of course,
we don't even know
how many names are on that list.
It's between ten and 13
like it was today.
But Israeli officials say
that they've already informed
the families involved
so they can be prepared
to, you know, welcome back
their loved ones.
I think you have to remember
that the events of today,
the pause in the fighting,
the releases of the of the hostages
and the prisoners from Israeli jails,
as well as the humanitarian relief
it went remarkably well.
And so I think the hope is that
that can be repeated again and again.
Let's hope it does get repeated
if these hostages are able to come home.
Matthew, thank you very much.
Matthew Chance reporting.
I want to go to CNN's Oren Liebermann
right now.
He's over at the Wolfson Medical Center
here in Tel Aviv.
Oren,
I know you're at this hospital
where hostages have arrived.
Update our viewers.
What did you actually see?
Well, Wolf, this is one
of several hospitals
that have taken in the freed hostages
over the course of the past
several hours.
At about 9:00 tonight,
two patients,
two of the first freed
hostages, arrived by ambulance
a couple of hours after that.
Take a look at this video.
This is three more elderly women
hostages being brought in on helicopter.
There actually is no helipad
here at the hospital itself.
So they landed
at a field nearby
and were brought in on ambulance.
Take a look at this
video of the hostages
being loaded onto the ambulances.
The cheers,
the unbridled joy,
the happiness
as they were loaded here in Israel
and brought to the
brought to the hospital for care.
It is that same joy
that played out in the hospital itself,
according to the staff
here, when they were brought in,
when they were welcomed
and when they began
to receive
the professional medical care of Wolfson
Medical Center. Listen to this.
I think that there was no one
in the room
that could hold these feelings
and stop crying
because it was a very emotional
and exciting event.
They met their families and they met
a very professional, a team here
that was very good, prepared to receive
those hostages.
Now, the hospital wouldn't say
all that much about their condition,
their well-being or their mental state.
They said they're going to respect
the privacy of the five hostages
that are here.
They have set up a special
wing of the hospital
just for them and their families
as they go through all of the checks,
all of the medical evaluations.
And it's not just a question
of their physical health.
It's also a question
of their mental health.
Right now,
psychologists brought in,
as well as other professionals,
to essentially give them any type of help
they might need.
The critical first step
was reuniting them with their family.
That happened here several hours ago.
And crucially,
it's not a one time deal here.
This isn't a process
that began and ended.
The hospital
well aware
that there might be more elderly
freed hostages coming out of Gaza
over the course of the next several days.
And they say they are very much ready
to receive them as well,
with the same sort of open arms
to begin that recovery process.
Oren Wolfson
is not the only Israeli hospital
where hostages were taken today.
How is that working?
You're absolutely right.
Wolfson will focus on the elderly.
The five freed hostages
who were brought here were elderly women.
But there are other hospitals
that will focus on different populations
or groups.
So Schneider Medical Center,
which is in Petah Tikva,
not all that far from us
that will focus on the children
who are freed.
And they have set up
essentially a special area
to try to make it
feel as little as possible,
like a hospital.
They want it to feel
almost like a luxury hotel
to make them as comfortable as possible.
Wolf, another example of software warfare
that is set up to receive
the foreign nationals,
and that's part of the system
here in place
for the freeing of the hostages.
Oren Liebermann reporting from Tel Aviv.
Oren, thank you very much.
President Biden says he hopes and expects
American hostages
will be freed very soon,
even though none were released on this
the first day of the truce.
CNN's Arlette Sines
is traveling with the president
in Nantucket,
Massachusetts, for us right now.
Arlette, how is the president
feeling about this deal so far?
Well, Wolf, President Biden welcomed
the initial release
that occurred of these hostages
being held by Hamas earlier today.
He said that this was
just a start
to the process,
but said that he believes
that this had unfolded Well,
but it does come as Americans
were not included
in that initial batch of hostages
that were released to
the president said that
it is his hope
and expectation
that there will be three Americans
coming out in the coming days.
That includes two women.
And also for your four year
old Abigail Oden.
It was her birthday on Friday.
Her parents were killed on the
in the October 7th attack by Hamas.
And she has been held
hostage over the course of the past
seven weeks.
But President Biden
had very few details to offer as
relating to his expectation
on what exactly
these Americans would be getting out.
Take a listen to what he had to tell
reporters earlier today.
We don't know when that
will occur,
but we're going to expect it to occur.
And we don't know what
the list of all the hostages are
and when they'll be released.
But we know the numbers.
They're going to be released
soon as my hope
and expectation will be soon.
And of the ten Americans
that are unaccounted for,
do you know all of their conditions?
Are they all alive?
We don't know all the conditions.
So still a number of unanswered questions
about the fate of these American hostages
being held by Hamas.
The President Biden today
also expressed
some optimism that this fight,
this pause in the fighting
that's currently slated for
for four days,
he believes that
that could possibly be extended
to get even more
than the 50 women and children
that had been initially negotiated
in this initial deal.
Now, President
Biden has been working the phones
throughout the week,
including the leaders of Egypt,
Qatar and Israel.
He said that he will remain in contact
with those leaders
and counterparts in the region
as they are trying to make sure
that this deal stays on track.
Arlette Sides reporting for us.
Thank you very much. Our.